hi thank you so much for meeting with me
did you already get a chance to look at
the draft that I sent to you well it was
good but just a little too personal too
personal yeah you know try to make it
academic not personal so what do you
think of the new draft better but still
too personal get rid of most of these
extracurricular things talk more about
your academics this is not about you as
a person this is about you as an
academic person this is the one that's
the perfect draft that's the personal
statement that can get you into Oxbridge
oh thank you it's just it's not really
me yeah I know it's not supposed to be
personal but like I don't know I really
wanted to talk about my extracurriculars
and stuff you know what I'm going to use
my first draft
goodbye polish draft and hello first
draft it maybe he doesn't say everything
you want to hear but it says everything
I wanted to say about me that I think
matters about me and if Oxbridge doesn't
want me for that well then I don't think
I want to go to Oxbridge
[Music]
hello everyone it's Elena and welcome
back to my channel now as you can
probably tell from the skip before the
way I structured my person statement
wasn't exactly how my university
guidance counselor wanted me to do it I
think it ended up quite fine because I
ended up going to Cambridge so
everything worked itself out even though
I use my first draft which my university
guest comes to did not approve of but
here we are so if you guys want to know
how I structured my person statement and
this is the approach which I would still
use today if I were to write and have a
personal statement and keep watching but
just remember our personal statements
are something unique and they're
supposed to mean personal so if you use
a different structure and that's
absolutely fine as well first of all
let's talk about the structure I would
recommend using for writing your
personal statement
now I broke down the structure of my old
person statement and if you guys are
interested in a full person statement
I'm going to link it any books below for
you guys but here I'm just gonna go over
to structure that I use so first we have
our introduction don't waste too many
words on this and I would recommend
using a quite specific event in your
life that made you wanted and studied of
course that you're applying for
why would I recommend using something
quite specific because it helps you
avoid things like you know saying oh
I've always wanted to study at Cambridge
no you really didn't because when you
were a baby you probably didn't even
know what Cambridge was so avoid these
things a lot of people use these phrases
and admissions officers are probably
really tired of them by now so instead
use something specific that's also more
memorable now when I say do something
specific what I mean is maybe you have a
certain life event for example for law
you may have had an experience of the
court system stuff like that or maybe it
is just you know a book that you read
that made you want study law or maybe
something you learned about in school it
can really be anything but make it
specific because that shows that you
know it's something personal to you and
that's your personal motivation not
something that you know you just google
around why do people want to study law
and that's what came up next we have a
quite fit paragraph and that's the
paragraph about your academic
achievements now there's not a paragraph
about all of the academic achievements
of your life but rather it's a way of
showing off that you have demonstrated
an academic interest in the course
before you applied for it so think about
how do the subjects that I studied in
high school
related to the course that I'm applying
for auto any skills that you gained in
these classes that are transferable to
degree that you want to do so this is
really just a way of showing them look I
have had an interest in this before and
I'm bringing the skills that it takes to
study this course to the table and
that's pretty much all that you're doing
in this paragraph now the next big
paragraph does pretty much exactly the
same thing but instead of it talking
about your academic achievements it
talks about your extracurriculars so
whether you were part of certain student
societies organize certain events or you
have some work experience whatever it is
that you have that relates to the course
that you're going to study put that into
that paragraph and then lastly this tiny
paragraph at the end is your sort of
conclusion of your personal statement so
in there I would recommend first tying
everything back to the beginning of your
essay so because you've now talked about
you know how you have the skills for
studying law etc what you bring to the
table so now tie it back to how is
studying you're actually gonna help you
achieve that goal or address that issue
that you mentioned in the beginning of
your introduction and once you've done
that I would recommend also talking
about why you want to study in the UK
and not your home country if you're an
international student because obviously
that is a question for the admissions
officers like why do you want to go
abroad for your studies so I will
recommend addressing that as well okay
so now that we have a structure that we
can fill with content for personal
statement I'm now going to give you guys
some more general tips that I have for
writing that person statement first
let's talk about doing extra readings so
that you can mention them in your
personal statement I would not recommend
doing that and they're true reasons for
it but if you're just doing it to
mention in your personal statement
you're probably not going to enjoy it
and the other thing is you probably not
gonna understand it either and that's
the bigger problem because you probably
lack the foundation to understand
everything that's going on and that's
why you want to go to university right
you want to start understanding it so
you're probably not at the level yet to
actually engage in the academic debate
on your course and that's fine but the
thing is if you then name-drop the book
or you offer up it in your personal
statement it's absolutely fair game for
them to then ask you about it and if you
then show that you
really understood it it means you really
just name-drop them without actually
understanding the content and now let's
talk about these two big paragraphs so
your academic achievements and then your
extracurriculars and how they relate to
the course so they'll have a few tips
and the first one is less is often more
so really look at the list of things
that you want to talk about and think
about whether that can be narrowed down
even more because the less of individual
elements that you're talking about the
more you can then actually go into
detail about how they relate to the
course and that's really what they want
to see they don't just want to see a
list of things that you did
now don't worry they're still gonna know
about the other things that you achieved
whether you know it's an academic thing
or an extracurricular because remember
your application is not just your
personal statement there's also all the
stuff that you put in on you cos and
there's also your teacher references but
most importantly for both these
paragraphs is to not be too general
because everybody is writing these types
of things so make sure that you are not
just sticking to the general stuff like
for example everybody who study history
is gonna be like yeah I gained essay
writing skills from this great everybody
gains needs now these are still
important and they should be mentioned
but then also go into detail about your
own experience so for example I talked
about how I wrote an essay about the
Nuremberg trials and there are
significance for international law so
make sure that you show that yeah I
understand there's some you know general
things that are always relevant but I
also did these very particular things in
the subject and that makes this entire
paragraph a little more interesting to
read for the admissions officer who
probably reads the same general things
like a thousand times in that day so you
know give them something that they can
enjoy reading and lastly and this ties
back to my argument with whether or not
you should do extra reading is to make
sure that everything you mentioned in
your personal statement is something
that you would be comfortable being
asked about any interview so can you
confidently talk about this topic do you
actually understand it don't name drop
anything that you don't understand
because they may pick up on it in the
interview I like to say everything in
your personal statement is fair game for
the interview and I think that's a good
approach
take because what eles already supposed
to you know base their interview
questions on they have your personal
statements so obviously they are going
to want to know a little bit more about
someone to think that you talked about
so make sure you can actually talk about
them and yeah that's it that's how I
would approach writing your personal
statement for Oxbridge now this is
definitely not the approach at my
university guidance counselor won't it
be to take and I want to stress that
this is not the only approach because
however you want to write your personal
statement that's what I would recommend
going with because at the end of the day
it is a personal statement so make sure
that it's unique that it's really you
and if it's a totally different
structure and that's fine too because
this is about you so make it however you
want it to be and yeah that's it for
this video I hope you guys enjoyed it
and if you are applying to universities
this year I wish you all the best thank
you so much for watching have a nice day
bye
[Music]